So that is the kind of
basis of components, but
now this is where it gets interesting.
One of the questions that came
up earlier was like, okay, yeah,
but when I make prototypes,
can I have various states, right?
A variant, like, I'm not gonna
have spoiler for loci in here, but
like a variant is the idea of different
states that a button could be in, right?
And to be clear, you can take
a bunch of different approaches,
in a lot of UIs like the one that we
had back when I worked at Twilio,
when we called paste.
There was a primary button
which was like a blue color,
a secondary button was like a white
button with a blue outline.
There was a danger button which was
a red button with danger primary button,
danger, secondary button, there were
buttons that look like links, right?
But we're semantically
buttons in the HTML, right?
There are links that look like buttons,
right?
Actually getting, it's one of those things
like getting it like design system,
you can probably do in a day, doing
a reopen design system takes years, right?
I think there was one, so
one talk on Figma where a new designer of
Bumble tried to just create
a component for a chat bubble, and
found out there were 300 variations
of a chat bubble, right?
A chat bubble with a reply, a chat
bubble with an image, a chat bubble for
each side, so you already
doubled the number there, right?
Like 300 different variations for all
the things, a one with a link in it, so
it's got the preview, think about even
like I messaged or something like that.
Or what have you, there are a lot of
variations for these things, right?
Even like I said before, buttons and
input fields alone could have
like 36 variations,
there are a bunch of ways to handle this.
One, is to have multiple components,
right?
And another is to have variants, and could
you just do any of these things solely
with either one of these strategies?
You could, we'll make trade-offs,
my suggestion is we're gonna
exploit both strategies, and
my recommendation towards the end
is going to be yes, right?
There's a time and place for both
strategies, and I will give you kind of
like I will shepherd you through this
process and figure out when to use each.
So, my basic thing is, again, and
we say that there's a primary button and
a secondary button, a danger button,
a dangerous secondary button,
those could all be variants.
I'm going to implore you that they should
be their own components, you're like but
what if I just change the border radius?
I will get there, I will argue that the
state of a given component is it hovered?
Is it active?
Is it focused?
Is it disabled?
That is one component that could
be in these various states,
if it is an attribute that you are going
to give it an HTML or a class name no.
If it's an attribute that
you're gonna give it or
something in the browser like,
is it focused?
Anything follows a colon, in the CSS,
I would say is a variant,
anything that's in a class name is
probably actually a separate component,
and we'll figure out how to manage it.
So you can basically have your cake and
eat it too, because who doesn't love cake?
Okay, so when you choose variants,
you have multiple similar components
that share a lot of the same properties.
But, number two is kind
of a point I just made,
you've got some state that you
want to be able to toggle between.
Enabled, disabled, checked, unchecked,
on off for a toggle switch, kind of so on,
and so forth so let's go ahead,
and let's make a button, right?
That theoretically can have
some states to it, right?
Some variants, if you will,
I'm gonna take this button right here,
we will make a real button
set in a little bit, for
now, we'll just grab a button that works,
and I will drag it out here.
And, I'm actually gonna detach
this one real quick, so
this is just a button that I made.
Here it is, now what I might choose
to do is I'll make another one.
Yeah, I'll make another one, cool,
let's say a button you can hover over it,
and you can click on it.
So this will be our default button, and
this one will be a hover state eventually,
and this one will be our active.
Again, let's just do something
simple here, we'll say,
you hover, it gets a shadow
behind it like it's lifted up,
and maybe when you click on it,
it gets a slightly darker color.
I made a lot of these, like example ones,
without trying to pollute all the styles,
so these have hard coded values.
We could also theoretically switch all of
these and use our new colors that we made
earlier in the course, so, we can say
that this is going to be a brand button.
So be the primary button,
we'll say by default,
we'll change this to
That's a little bright,
that's all dark, we'll go with
a brighter color in this case, and
we'll say that this one is
going to be that darker color.
Let's actually keep the hover state
the same color as the main button,
but when they click it, it will go
back down and be a little bit darker.
Like again, you can sell these however
you want, you don't like my colors,
change your colors.
But we have these three states, so I could
do this point is I could select them all,
and you'll notice that I have
this create component set.
Yeah, let's do that, and now they get
surrounded in this fancy purple border,
and it's button, and
I'm getting yelled at here.
Some variants of the same
property values apply,
cuz they all have this thing called
property one, and it's set to default.
That's not great, so, we'll say that the
property one is the state that it's in.
All right, sure that one's default,
that makes sense, I like that.
This one will actually
say that it's hover, and
this one will say that it's active,
as soon as I do that,
that warning that we saw before,
goes away.
So I have this idea of a button, this
is a set, if we go over into my assets
right here, and we see the under
variants of the button I just made,
there's just one button in here, right?
I can drag it in, and now, I can switch it
between default, hover and active, right?
There's a few other ways
to go about doing this,
let's try it again real quick,
let's just grab a button.
Get out of there, get out,
this is not a component of any sort,
but that as a component,
let's just attach it again.
Just gonna show you another way that you
can make a button, all right, so for
this one let's change it to a dangerous
button, so danger primary button.
What I could do is, I could create
a component out of it, neat, and
now I can hit this plus sign, and
you see there's property one I can call,
this one's gonna be called hover.
If I wanna change the name of the property
actually have to go to the set state,
default, and hover, and now you can either
add a new variant or add a new property.
So if I wanted to say disabled or
enabled that would be a new property, but
a new variation of a current
property in this case this state,
we could say is now hovered or active.
That gives me the same effect, now,
remember I said you could use
a slash to organize onces.
Well, there's also
a trick that you can do,
let's make one more button because yeah,
who doesn't like making buttons?
Let's go, this one will detach
the instance real quick.
And we'll make a secondary button
in this case, and the strategy for
making the various forms of buttons
is already flawed cuz if I change
the border radius on one of them.
I have to do each at least set
individually, that's not great, but
we'll see how to handle that in a second.
So in this case,
we'll give it a stroke of same color,
and we'll take the fill,
and make it light,
and we'll take the text
I'll make it dark again,
nope, gotta grab the text there,
I'll say, dark.
I might even make it a white background,
but
I'm not gonna keep this button, so
I'm not gonna over rotate on it, cool.
All right, this is like the Galaxy
mind version of it, you're ready?
I will make three versions of it just
like I did in the initial example.
We'll add the shadow to this one.
Maybe we'll actually make these
two white in the background, and
keep that one as the kind of active.
All right, so that's the button hovering
over it and clicking on it, okay?
If I name these, state equals default,
state equals hover, and
state equals active,
and now I make my set.
You can see that already it automatically
figured it all out for me, right?
So especially if you find yourself like,
all right,
I'm gonna make a whole bunch of
input fields, I'm gonna have focus,
I'm gonna have regular,
I'm gonna have with an error.
I'm gonna have without an error,
I'm gonna have required,
you could theoretically just change a few
words in the naming of each one and
automatically create
the entire set on the fly.
And now you have the ability to drag
in and again, we've named this like,
second secondary button.
Danger button, okay,
you might be like, well, what if?
What if?
Instead of having three sets of
components, I have one button and
I have a whole bunch of variants,
and I'll have like primary,
secondary, danger, danger and secondary.
And then,
they're both set I all have everything,
just a series of different toggles,
you can do that, and it will work.
You're like, there's a catch, isn't there?
There is a catch, you can do that in work,
but it does mean that there
only be one entry in here.
You will drag in that button, and you will
tweak all the different settings, for
every single button that you drag in,
you will not be able to drag in
the different kinds of buttons, right?
This one, you don't see the hover state,
or the active state in here, you just
see the default state for each one of
those, how do I know that that's annoying?
Because I did it, and
it doesn't go well, right?
Versus, let's say I drag in a button, and
later you wanna drag in
a secondary button, right?
But then later on I wanna make
this one a secondary one, to,
you can go ahead here and
say swap instance, and
just swap it with a different instance if
they're all in the same folder, right?
And the same name, they're all in the same
frame, these are just kind of in this page
overall, that's why that
organization is super key.
Because if you have them all in a similar
name, frame all started with button slash,
whatever, they're all like siblings in
a family that you can just swap between,
and also you'll notice that I can say.
The overrides will work,
so here I can say,
as long as the properties
have the same original state.
So we'll swap this one over to a primary,
and
so, this is why I would say that
the given states that a button might be
in hovered or active those can be variants
for reasons that we'll see later.
But actually related components should
actually just be organized together,
could you do it all at variance?
You absolutely could, should you?
Probably not, unless you have a compelling
use case you could do it, but
I have learned the hard way that it is
not a happy place that it leaves me in.
But instead, I end up just having
to tweak things all the time,
a few other things is you
can have a description.
The other really cool thing is
if you had a full design system,
like if I was doing this for
my company's design system,
you can actually have
a link to the docs as well.
This, again, is especially if you're
both the developer and the designer, or
if you're a designer who's
thinking about developers, and
you're handing this off to developer
the idea that you could link.
To the react props, or the view props
of the component, and have the docks in
there as they're kinda navigating
through the UI is powerful as well.
You can also put words in
the description and search here, and
I'll show up as well, so if you want to
have additional search functionality two,
you can kind of build that in place.
All right, one other trick, and
then I'm gonna give you a little
exercise to do, is, if you'd give them
a name like you see this one I can just
swap between the different states.
If the values of the properties
are true and false,
you get a slightly different UI for
it, right?
So just a little trick a little fun hack
if you will, so let's make a little,
I'll make this, and we'll give it
So we'll just say,
checkbox or whatever, and
we'll make a second variation,
here we're gonna say, checked is true.
Checked is false, in the checkbox we'll
put a little rectangle in there for now.
Just something simple, I have a better
looking one that we can use in a second,
but I will start with this,
I will create the variance.
And we'll name it, checkbox,
we'll drag it in, and
now, you can see that instead
of a drop-down with all
the different options if it's true and
false, you get a slider.
Just, yeah, if it's gonna be a Boolean
anyway, you might as well treat yourself
to a slider instead of having to like
two clicks instead of one click.